# ESR13_Thesis

Historically, power generation from two-phase and single-phase (liquid) geothermal resources has been confined to direct steam plants and binary plants respectively. Binary plant technology tends to provide a number of operational advantages over direct steam plant technology: ease of maintenance, effective surface handling and re-injection of possible co-produced Non-condensable gases (NCG), which can be harmful or have a Global Warming Potential (GWP). The present work focuses on the comparison between the two technologies, with particular emphasis on two-phase geothermal fluids. The design of geothermal power plants is a demanding task; different technologies, plant configurations and working fluids must be considered, and the optimum plant design is strongly dependent on the inlet conditions, composition, thermophysical properties and phase behaviour of the geofluid. Moreover, the impact and cost of handling and reinjecting non-condensable gases must be accounted for.
Geofluid modelling has historically been focused on two research fields: 1) partitioning the geofluid into separate phases, and 2) the estimation of the thermophysical properties of these phases. Recognising potential synergies between these models, GeoProp is introduced, a novel geofluid modelling framework, which addresses this niche by coupling existing state-of-the-art fluid partitioning simulators, such as Reaktoro, with high-accuracy thermophysical fluid property computation engines, like CoolProp and ThermoFun.
Simulation of geothermal power plants using commercial software, such as Aspen Plus v11 faces some drawbacks; 1) accuracy of the thermophysical properties and phase behaviour models, particularly for geofluids with a multi-component chemical composition, and 2) important phenomena, such as wet expansion effects in steam turbines, are difficult to capture. With this in mind, PowerCycle has been developed, a novel power plant simulation tool, which allows the use of virtually any thermophysical property model (e.g. CoolProp and GeoProp), and provides geothermal power generation specific component models for turbines, heat exchangers, pumps/compressors etc.
With these tools the thermodynamic and techno-economic performance of binary Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) and single flash Direct Steam Cycle (DSC) geothermal power plants is compared for two-phase geothermal resources in the range of 423K to 548K; a parametric study on the effect and handling of NCG integrates the investigation. For thermodynamic optimised power plants, binary ORCs were found to produce equal power with respect to single flash DSC plants at geofluid vapour qualities as high as 85%. For techno-economically optimised plants equal specific power plant cost were obtained for vapour qualities as high as 80%. With regards to the handling of NCG, binary ORCs are better suited than single flash DSCs, for all considered scenarios (venting to the atmosphere, re-injection into the reservoir and partial dissolution). DSCs spend significant power on re-pressurising NCG for disposal, be it for venting to the atmosphere or re-injection into the reservoir. While the latter is virtually uneconomical for single flash DSC geothermal power plants it could be easier to realise with binary ORC power plants, due to the higher NCG pressures at the plant outlet and thus lower re-pressurisation power requirements.